# Market Basket Analysis with Apriori Algorithm

Market Basket Analysis is a data mining technique used to discover associations between items frequently bought together in transactions. This project implements the Apriori algorithm to perform Market Basket Analysis on a given dataset.


## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

Market Basket Analysis is a valuable tool for retailers and businesses to understand customer purchasing behavior and make informed decisions regarding product placement, marketing, and promotions. This project demonstrates how to apply the Apriori algorithm to analyze transaction data and generate association rules.

## Features

- Apriori algorithm implementation
- Discover frequent itemsets
- Generate association rules

## Requirements

To run this project, you need the following:

- Python 3.x
- Libraries: [numpy](https://numpy.org/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), [mlxtend](http://rasbt.github.io/mlxtend/)

You can install the required libraries using pip:

```bash
pip install numpy pandas mlxtend
```

## Usage

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MohamedKhalifa1/market-basket-analysis-.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd market-basket-analysis
```

3. Run the Apriori algorithm on your dataset. You may need to modify the script to load your data:

```bash
python apriori.py
```

4. Analyze the results and association rules generated by the algorithm.



## Contributing

If you want to contribute to this project, feel free to open issues or submit pull requests. We welcome any improvements, bug fixes, or additional features.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
